= Robotstxt

Robotstxt is an Ruby robots.txt file parser.

The robots.txt exclusion protocol is a simple mechanism whereby site-owners can guide
any automated crawlers to relevant parts of their site, and prevent them accessing content
which is intended only for other eyes. For more information, see http://www.robotstxt.org/.

This library provides mechanisms for obtaining and parsing the robots.txt file from
websites. As there is no official "standard" it tries to do something sensible,
though inspiration was taken from:

 - http://www.robotstxt.org/orig.html
 - http://www.robotstxt.org/norobots-rfc.txt
 - http://www.google.com/support/webmasters/bin/answer.py?hl=en&answer=156449&from=35237
 - http://nikitathespider.com/articles/RobotsTxt.html

While the parsing semantics of this library are explained below, you should not
write sitemaps that depend on all robots acting the same -- they simply won't.
Even the various different ruby libraries support very different subsets of
functionality.

This gem builds on the work of Simone Rinzivillo, and is released under the MIT
license -- see the LICENSE file.

== Usage

There are two public points of interest, firstly the Robotstxt module, and
secondly the Robotstxt::Parser class.

The Robotstxt module has three public methods:

 - Robotstxt.get source, user_agent, (options)
   Returns a Robotstxt::Parser for the robots.txt obtained from source.

 - Robotstxt.parse robots_txt, user_agent
   Returns a Robotstxt::Parser for the robots.txt passed in

 - Robotstxt.get_allowed? urlish, user_agent, (options)
   Returns true iff the robots.txt obtained from the host identified by the
   urlish allows the given user agent access to the url.

The Robotstxt::Parser class contains two pieces of state, the user_agent and the
text of the robots.txt. In addition its instances have two public methods:

 - Robotstxt::Parser#allowed? urlish
   Returns true iff the robots.txt file allows this user_agent access to that
   url.

 - Robotstxt::Parser#sitemaps
   Returns a list of the sitemaps listed in the robots.txt file.

In the above there are five kinds of parameter,

    A "urlish" is either a String that represents a URL (suitable for passing to
    URI.parse) or a URI object, i.e.

      urlish = "http://www.example.com/"
      urlish = "/index.html"
      urlish = https://compicat.ed/home?action=fire#joking"
      urlish = URI.parse("http://example.co.uk")

    A "source" is either a "urlish", or a Net::HTTP connection. This allows the
    library to re-use the same connection when the server respects Keep-alive:
    headers, i.e.

      source = Net::HTTP.new("example.com", 80)
      Net::HTTP.start("example.co.uk", 80) do |http|
        source = http
      end
      source = "http://www.example.com/index.html"

    When a "urlish" is provided, only the host and port sections are used, and
    the path is forced to "/robots.txt".

    A "robots_txt" is the textual content of a robots.txt file that is in the
    same encoding as the urls you will be fetching (normally utf8).

    A "user_agent" is the string value you use in your User-agent: header.

    The "options" is an optional hash containing
      :num_redirects (5) - the number of redirects to follow before giving up.
      :http_timeout (10) - the length of time in seconds to wait for one http
                           request
      :url_charset (utf8) - the charset which you will use to encode your urls.

    I recommend not passing the options unless you have to.

== Examples

  url = "http://example.com/index.html"
  if Robotstxt.get_allowed?(url, "Crawler")
    open(url)
  end


  Net::HTTP.start("example.co.uk") do |http|
    robots = Robotstxt.get(http, "Crawler")

    if robots.allowed? "/index.html"
      http.get("/index.html")
    elsif robots.allowed? "/index.php"
      http.get("/index.php")
    end
  end

== Details

=== Request level

This library handles different HTTP status codes according to the specifications
on robotstxt.org, in particular:

If an HTTPUnauthorized or an HTTPForbidden is returned when trying to access
/robots.txt, then the entire site should be considered "Disallowed".

If an HTTPRedirection  is returned, it should be followed (though we give up
after five redirects, to avoid infinite loops).

If an HTTPSuccess is returned, the body is converted into utf8, and then parsed.

Any other response, or no response, indicates that there are no Disallowed urls
no the site.

=== User-agent matching

This is case-insensitive, substring matching, i.e. equivalent to matching the
user agent with /.*thing.*/i.

Additionally, * characters are interpreted as meaning any number of any character (in
regular expression idiom: /.*/). Google implies that it does this, at least for
trailing *s, and the standard implies that "*" is a special user agent meaning
"everything not referred to so far".

There can be multiple User-agent: lines for each section of Allow: and Disallow:
lines in the robots.txt file:

User-agent: Google
User-agent: Bing
Disallow: /secret

In cases like this, all user-agents inherit the same set of rules.

=== Path matching

This is case-sensitive prefix matching, i.e. equivalent to matching the
requested path (or path + '?' + query) against /^thing.*/. As with user-agents,
* is interpreted as any number of any character.

Additionally, when the pattern ends with a $, it forces the pattern to match the
entire path (or path + ? + query).

In order to get consistent results, before the globs are matched, the %-encoding
is normalised so that only /?&= remain %-encoded. For example, /h%65llo/ is the
same as /hello/, but /ac%2fdc is not the same as /ac/dc - this is due to the
significance granted to the / operator in urls.

The paths of the first section that matched our user-agent (by order of
appearance in the file) are parsed in order of appearance. The first Allow: or
Disallow: rule that matches the url is accepted. This is prescribed by
robotstxt.org, but other parsers take wildly different strategies:
    Google checks all Allows: then all Disallows:
    Bing checks the most-specific first
    Others check all Disallows: then all Allows

As is conventional, a "Disallow: " line with no path given is treated as
"Allow: *", and if a URL didn't match any path specifiers (or the user-agent
didn't match any user-agent sections) then that is implicit permission to crawl.

== TODO

I would like to add support for the Crawl-delay directive, and indeed any other
parameters in use.

== Requirements

* Ruby >= 1.8.7
* iconv, net/http and uri

== Installation

This library is intended to be installed via the
RubyGems[http://rubyforge.org/projects/rubygems/] system.

  $ gem install robotstxt

You might need administrator privileges on your system to install it.

== Author

Author:: {Conrad Irwin} <conrad@rapportive.com>
Author:: {Simone Rinzivillo}[http://www.simonerinzivillo.it/] <srinzivillo@gmail.com>

== License

Robotstxt is released under the MIT license.
Copyright (c) 2010 Conrad Irwin
Copyright (c) 2009 Simone Rinzivillo

